Okay,
we should be live here.
Hi folks.
Hey Alan, welcome.
Get Reream up here.
We're going to work on some drone things
today, just for a little bit.
Streaming schedule is going to be a lot
more scattered uh for the next few
weeks. I'm in Palo Alto. I'm taking tons
of meetings, so schedule definitely gets
messed up with that. But I do what I got
to do.
I think we were getting kind of close to
having something working.
Yeah. So, we had a working build of this
last time.
And this is just the racing task.
So, if I recall correctly, the score was
not really being computed the way it
should be. Uh, we're going to fix that.
We're going to get a decent benchmark.
Also, let me stop clipping my
microphone.
That ought to be a little quieter.
We're going to get a decent benchmark on
this.
Uh, and then we will see if we can get
one policy to do both racing and other
stuff.
How are we adding logs at the moment?
So we we add a log
here and here potentially.
Okay. So we have this doesn't get any
rewards, right?
It just gets this compute reward,
which honestly doesn't work super well
for this. I don't think
really doesn't work super well, right?
The issue that I have here is that I'm
rewarding
I have kind of two different problems,
right?
All of the different drone swarm
problems I can cast is some form of go
to this objective, don't collide.
Uh the ring ones are a little trickier.
I can just add like a rings hit or
something to it, right?
How do I
It's going to get messed up like
instantly though.
Yeah, the logging is a bit tricky. the
way like the way we do our logging.
If you only have a task like if you have
different tasks and they have different
metrics,
that's going to be an issue.
We definitely need some sort of way to
tell if it's completing the course.
[Music]
a way around this.
Really isn't much way around this that I
can see.
I can definitely hack it.
Yeah. Let's do Where's Where's the log?
Not in here.
It's here. Okay. So, we'll just do
rings.
We add one ring here. The rings passed.
And then we'll add
that. Oops.
Okay. So the goal here is that we
actually can see
the uh number of rings that the drone is
collecting on average.
Uh cuz it's not always going to full
solve. Like we're doing weird things
like we're randomizing the weight of the
drone and its inertia and stuff like
that.
And uh when we do that, we can basically
make it so that it's impossible to fully
solve the course. This thing is not
working somehow.
Oops.
And vlog rings passed.
What happened here?
Okay, I I broke something cuz it's not
compiling this correctly at all.
Hey, Lee
starts learning gets thrown off. No,
it's just it's not logging the rings at
all is the thing. Like this score is not
the number of rings collected. The thing
that's difficult here, right, is that
I'm trying to make one sim that can do
drone swarming. It can do formations. It
can go to go to target and it can also
race. So like different tasks have
different log metrics that we care about
and we have to be a little bit careful
about how we collect those because like
we want to eventually make sure that
it's doing well at all the tasks
essentially,
right? We're going to want to be able to
see that hey our drone can do all the
tasks and then basically if we are able
to do that then we just have the
ultimate policy and that's going to be
so robust in general that we will pretty
much just be able to throw it on a real
drone and have it do anything.
If it can fly like whatever drone that
we throw it like any possible drone in
simulation then the idea is that you
know the real world drone is one of
those somewhere right it's in the space
of the drones that you've trained
I was trying to run puffer Windows
docker file [__] is stupid don't run it
on Windows native run it on WSL
if you must use Windows use WSL Well,
I'm trying with rockets. That's awesome.
Like actual rockets. Are you a physicist
or rocket scientist or like hobby
rockets?
as we are very interested in um
real world applications outside what
we're working on at the moment.
You probably figured how to land some
rockets, control some rockets with the
RL
RL Rockets is a vibe.
There are no vibes around here. All just
code.
But yeah, I mean like a lot of these
things are control problems, right? Like
I think there was uh there's a
well-known paper that's doing fusion
calibration like plas whatever the heck
it is. I don't I don't know the
technical details of fusion obviously
but there's like some calibration
problem where you have to deflect plasma
like very specifically and that was done
with RL
M2 Mac.
Did it get it to fall on couldn't get it
to fall on the MPS. So fell to CPU
use hyperbolic.
You can do either of those. Um
yeah. So MPS or CPU on a Mac is going to
be substantially slower than an Nvidia
GPU. Nvidia GPU on WSL or Linux will
work.
Otherwise, you're stuck with cloud
stuff. I always suggest people in this
space to just have a local machine that
has decent hardware and run Linux if you
can afford one. It's just dramatically
easier for everyone involved.
Like honestly, just MLDDev in general is
not a fun thing when you can't run
locally.
Like I have this problem right now cuz I
haven't fixed all the drivers on this
machine. So I have to SSH to my other
box and it's a pain. Way better just
have your stuff
rings pass.
This is weird that this doesn't
really this doesn't uh this doesn't get
it.
No vibes, just code.
I'm a computer engineer. I love defense,
man.
Yeah. I mean, the drone stuff we're
doing has obvious applications in that
space, and we will be looking for
contracts once we have uh some cool
demos.
You should not be bottlenecked by VRAM
ever in RL. What's unless that's a 4 gig
card, but even then, I think you'll be
fine.
Six gigs, you're fine.
Now, six gigs is fine for RL.
Just like here. Watch this.
Okay. So, we're doing uh 8192
drone M and we're using like 1.3 gigs of
VRAM.
And this is a 4x bigger model than you
need most of the time.
So, you're totally fine.
Like, technically, yes, you can OM like
maybe our biggest ends with our biggest
possible settings, but like most of the
time, you should just be fine.
I got you covered.
Four gigs. Well, you just see that. You
just saw this was using 1.3 gigs, right?
This was using 1.3 gigs for what I just
did. You can get stuff that will go over
four, but like realistically you should
be able to run a bunch of stuff.
And Lee, this is like we actually have a
um there's a mode you can enable to like
make it way more VRAM efficient even
than this. This is with us not
offloading anything to CPU. This is us
keeping everything on the GPU.
it just you just don't need that much
VRAM for what we do.
This is one of the reasons that we buy
our own hardware actually, right?
Because like buying a $20,000 H00 that's
not any faster than a 5090. It's
actually slower for what we do, right?
Hitting moving targets with simulated
missile.
Yeah, you're going to have a way easier
time just getting puffer lib to work,
man. I guarantee you.
SP3 is not going to be fun. Like, you're
going to be more than a hundred times
slower. More likely a thousand times
slower on average.
It's just a different world completely.
Like, it's a completely
You'll see. Ask some of our other users.
We got a cool thing.
Yeah. It's not It's not like one of
those things where it's like ah, you
know, there's puffer lib, there's this
other RL library. It's like and they're
all do about the same thing. Puffer lib
is like completely different at this
point. Like there's nothing comparable.
SP3 is slow as it's not even that slow
compared to other stuff out there is the
thing. It's just that Puffer is that
fast.
Hey, welcome.
Puffer wasn't working.
Well, but the thing is right you didn't
come and ask me on stream and I haven't
seen questions in the Discord. We have a
super active community discord that help
with helpful people. Uh, and then also
I'm I stream as many hours as I can a
week. I've got a bunch of meetings over
the next few weeks, but I'm still going
to be getting in a decent chunk of
streaming hours. Like, it's not perfect.
Uh, most of the remaining setup issues,
by the way, are literally Python
packaging level stuff. It's just stuff
wrong with Python that's really tough
for us to work around. Um, but yeah, we
can generally help you.
I spent a lot of time making it as easy
as possible and I'm here for uh no to
provide free support for the rest of
this stuff.
What are you talking about? Huffer lib.
We do high performance reinforcement
learning.
That is the uh well that is what we do
around here.
Uh, why the heck is this thing not
compiling new new end code is what I
want to know.
Is this like just not maybe it's not
even taking the code.
Okay, so this is actually taking the new
code
set up
in place of course
happen in puffer liib.
Give it a try. I think that you'll be
very happy once you have it set up. And
like it's
to give you an idea of the stuff that
we've gone through to try to make it
easier. Like there are breaking version
changes and setup tools that make
everything a pain. Uh shipping CUDA
kernels in general is a total pain. And
then there are like multiple recent
updates to Python that have like added
extra annoying flags that we have to
work around. Is this your library? Yes,
it is.
Hey, welcome K. Hey, welcome K invert. I
uh I've seen you in the Discord.
We'll get my calendar up on the other
window. It's going to be a relatively
short stream today. I just want to get a
couple drone things fraing because of
meetings.
Dude, how is this thing not okay? I
don't understand why this thing is not
picking up my new log variable.
This is Joseph's life pretty much.
I, you know, I would actually way prefer
this to be what I'm doing. Uh, I've got
a whole bunch of meetings to do this
week, but hey, you know, business side
has to grow as well to fund everything
else, right?
Okay. So, float rings past, right?
Log rings past.
I've never had this bug before. I've
never had this bug where something just
won't show up.
Huh.
The compilation bug.
It does compile, right?
Yeah, it compiles
Let me just do one thing to make sure.
Oh, I totally misread uh
I totally misread your thing. Like I
have it in super small font on my
screen. I misread that as this is
Joseph's life.
That's funny.
Are you bet? Is it better than GPT? It's
different. It's definitely different
from GPT.
GPT is a really big clunky general
model. These are like small superhuman
models for specific tasks.
Okay. Yeah, something definitely is
wrong. I don't know if it's with the
build process
or what.
So for some reason the new log variables
are just not getting added.
I mean I guess the most productive thing
for me to do.
We'll just compile it in debug mode and
then I'll be able to stick a break point
in here.
This was one of the things that um took
a while to get working, but we have a
debug compile mode that lets you set
break points in C and then you can hit
those break points when you run from
Python. Uh I'll show you.
So if I just do the command is a little
obnoxious, but I leave it in the top of
the setup.py.
You see this massive thing?
Uh, and this is going to be a mess. So,
let me do it like this.
Okay. So,
this is now puffer
train and puffer drones form.
Right.
So this runs but now I want to actually
set a break point.
This GP
All right. So, we do break.
Is YouTube chat not showing up? It is.
You see it on the screen, right?
It's right there.
So obnoxious, man.
There's like some weird OS bug.
some weird OS bug that like gives you a
permissioning error no matter what you
do.
Okay, that makes things a little more
complicated.
Yeah, this is just what happens when I'm
like on some jank setup.
you start getting bugs that you don't
normally get.
I'm sure this is like some weird setup
related thing.
Let's see if this is actually compiling
anything.
It should be, but this shouldn't compile
because it should get an error here. And
if it doesn't, then it means that it's
like somehow the paths are messed up or
something.
This first portion will compile. That's
just the CUDA.
Okay. So this is getting compiled.
Am I filtering the logs or something?
Oh,
You're right. You recommend building M
C++?
No, not at all.
We like C.
It's much easier.
Oh, you know what?
I wonder if it's just never getting set.
Would that do something
if it never gets set?
No, it should still show up, shouldn't
it?
It should show up regardless.
Whatever. We'll do this. We'll see if
this makes a difference.
Hey, how's it going?
Oh, okay. No, I'm I'm serious about
that. Like, it's actually easier in the
sea.
like for the stuff that we do, it's
it's just like pretty low-level
simulation work. And um
C++ gives you a lot of ways to just
shoot yourself in the foot that like you
get penalized way way more in RL for
doing that type of stuff than you do in
uh general programming, if that makes
sense.
This is like stuff I cover in my guide.
Is stuff like is it just not using this
file?
I think it's just somehow not including
this file. I think it's like some jank
compilation setup bug cuz otherwise this
doesn't make any sense. Like I should
either be getting a compile error
because I have a like a name wrong or
something.
Yeah. Okay. It's not using this file.
I don't understand how that's possible,
but it's totally not using this file.
It's a drone swarm.
This is the correct binding.
What?
Something's mapped wrong.
I do.
Oh, god damn it. You know what it is? I
know what that's so obnoxious.
Wonder if Spencer is doing stuff at the
same time. Oh, yeah. He totally is.
Okay. Well, that's fine.
I forgot I had Spencer also messing
around on this machine.
All right.
Yeah, my bad, Spencer. Okay. This was
literally some dumb setup thing where we
were both we're both basically compiling
our code on top of each other and like
the sim links are getting messed up.
Yay. All right, that was a really that
was really stupid. Let's um
let's actually get a little bit of stuff
done today though, right?
Okay, this will be plus one ring passed.
Yeah. So, it's basically like we were
both running pip installs, I guess. And
like it must just be sw switching the
sim link,
you know, like we have two versions of
puffer on this. We should just have them
in separate containers, but I was lazy,
so I didn't bother setting that up. So,
yeah, whatever.
This won't mess with anything because
this is only my local install.
And then I can as long as I run it like
this, you should now actually be able to
see
the uh rings passed
and we get very very different results.
Cool.
We did five max rings. The max score
here is five.
It should be five.
Apparently not.
Oh, cuz it's max rings passed in 512
steps, I suppose, right?
Yeah. So, we should probably
Do I want to do it based on time or
course?
probably based on course, right?
But then what I should do,
We'll see if that does anything. Now we
full reset the end. We fully reset the
environment.
It's ringing index, not agent index.
Yeah.
Oh, no. You can't do it here
cuz the agent has a ring index.
Okay. So, it actually does because it's
multi- aent. We actually have to do like
fixed budget.
Okay.
What did we get before?
Nine rings pass. That's pretty good.
100 ticks. That's Yeah, that's
reasonable.
This definitely works. So now
now we get to do
all the tasks together potentially.
Well, this is the swarming task first.
Let's make sure this works.
Okay, so this is also stable apparently.
Zero rings passed because there are no
rings in this warming task.
And now what we can do,
we'll give it all tasks,
but we're going to do them in a
different ratio. So we'll do if
This is going to be half racing tasks,
half swarming tasks.
So, this is like dramatically
different stuff we're asking the bots to
do now, right? We're asking them to do a
race half the time and to do like a
swarming thing the other half the time.
Max score here should be rather
comparable score should be like 4.5 I
believe. Since you only get to do a
racing task half the
Yeah. So, we do take a little bit of a
hit to our performance. Uh, but
uh we would expect it to take longer to
train, right?
So if I do something like this,
it should be able to get us a nice train
curve on Neptune.
Yeah. And this is already randomized as
well.
Well, yeah. I think we'll be able to
actually get um
we'll be able to ship
this to the uh the drone guys pretty
soon. We got a couple undergrads doing
really cool drone work on Puffer
and uh they've been needing a better sim
for a little bit.
Okay, we get Nans. Lovely.
Yeah, that's always fun. Uh,
what do we do about Nans?
I think that the first order
we just suspect the learning rate gets
to be too high because
because of the um
basically when because of the learning
rate decay schedule you have too big of
a learning rate for too long and you can
destabilize things. Try that.
induction has a structural architecture
blueprint.
I have no idea what that means.
Uh, our model is mostly working though,
it seems.
We would like this to be like a 4.5.
We'll see if we get a 4.5.
I think that's what we would expect to
be able to get.
Fingers. What?
Welcome to the stream regardless.
Okay, it works.
So, uh,
I should probably get this working
locally so I can just render this for
you guys, right?
It's a little bit annoying because like
Maybe I can at least get the CPU version
of the Docker working for you.
Maybe that's what I can do.
I'll show you the thing that's annoying
locally.
I just do like Yes.
Uh those are some words that can go into
a sentence.
Where the heck am I requiring CUDA here?
I guess just from the base image, it
knows, huh?
Yeah, that's obnoxious. So, I can't run
this. Can I at least install it locally?
I maybe I can just get the UV version.
Yeah.
I can probably get the UV version to
work
real quick.
Is that worth doing?
Probably worth doing.
This will be a fun test as well because
this is a super janky machine setup. So,
if puffer li works on this,
we'll be pretty uh well off.
So, let's see. UV
grab UV.
Uh, do you have a point with any of
this, Morgan?
Yes, we are programmers.
But what is the relevance?
reinforcement learning. Oh, are you
trying to do like parallels to biology?
There are some parallels, but the thing
is we kind of don't understand
everything well enough to like really
draw parallels correctly.
Um,
but at least I found it best to just
look at everything as an empirical
science that's loosely biologically
inspired at best.
There is probably a lot to learn from
biology, but it's not like
it's not super easy because it's it's a
heck of a lot harder to reason about
uh things we don't fully understand.
Actually, I think it's a funny thing.
It's it's probably harder to reason
about
like biological processes than it is to
just do empirical science on neural nets
that we also don't fully Understand?
Huh?
No idea.
Right.
You're kind of just saying words at this
point.
Hey, Shadow.
How's it going? I'm trying to get the uh
the drone stuff running locally and show
off some policies we just trained.
So, all right. This setup is a total
pain in the ass.
The thing is,
the reason this setup is a total pain in
the ass has nothing to do with puffer
liib. Like, this is just normal ML jank
with CUDA and torch and stuff. So, yeah,
I'm not going to be able to make this
thing.
Well, to be fair, I can get the CPU
version running real quick, which should
be enough for evals.
Let me do that.
Got to love uh driver jank, right?
Funny how it actually doesn't give um
Yeah, this just installs the wrong
version by default. That's crazy.
Well, I don't really want to mess with
this a ton on stream.
So, I guess I'll get this working later
and we'll just do some experiments for
now.
What kind of end would you like to see
in Puffer Lib? I have some ideas in the
uh the guide that I released. I mean,
the main thing that we really want
that's a bit harder, I'd say, is uh we
want like we want new prototypes in
different application areas where we
haven't done work professionally yet,
right? We want to like get this working
on a ton of different problems in
industry.
You pulling with UB versus No, we're
not. But that's not the problem. It's
just like it's just dated CUDA stuff
like this machine. I haven't updated in
a long time and I don't want to stall
for an hour while I go mess with all
that. So, we'll just do some stuff on uh
these terminals are not running locally.
These are running remotely. The only
thing is I never got X forwarding set up
correctly with this with our Docker
containers. Like I can't actually render
the policy remotely. We should probably
just fix that. That'd be way better.
I mean, this does work, though. This is
This is definitely working. Uh, I guess
what we'll do is since I've got to go
for a meeting in a half hour, let's just
get some configuration options into this
because the idea here is that
we're going to be training on a mix of
racing tasks and swarming tasks.
We can kind of just clean a few things
up and we should already be uh
already be pretty good to go
is like that.
I don't like how our scoring works.
Maybe we can fix that cuz if we just had
a better scoring function.
I mean, I guess we have the collision
rate as zero and out of bounds is zero.
Collision rate is actual zero is kind of
weird, isn't it?
Is it zero initially?
H okay. So there's a problem then if
it's zero initially.
Uh this is why. Okay. So this is 32N's
two drones.
See if this makes any difference.
Correct me if I'm wrong. Puffer liaches
1 mil on pong and policy accepts images
as input. No.
Yeah. No, we don't do a million with
images. We do like we've done up to uh
up to 20 million with state though.
It's not really practical to do 20
million, but we've done it.
Normally we're we're like four to five
million.
I think we got um we got Atari up to
like 50,000 or something
which if you look at like clean RL 1,000
with the same network where SP3 is also
like at like a thousand
is decent. You try it with images. I
mean, we did originally do stuff with
Atari, right? We originally did stuff
with Atari and got like 50K, but the
thing is like, why would we, right? If
our goal is to advance research and to
advance RL generally, like it's always
the right call to do your experiments
100x faster.
Like, it's not a more interesting
problem because pixels, right? It's just
a slower problem.
Adding a perception component really
doesn't add anything to the
reinforcement learning component.
Okay. So, this still trains nicely.
I think we can't do 32 though. I think
it's it's 64 drones is what we
It's supposed to be 16 * 64
cuz like that's the number that we
like the uh the flag environments and
stuff, right? Uh they're designed for 64
agents.
We could technically make it more
configurable,
unlocks many other fields. Yeah, but the
thing is uh it'll work. Like it's not
like our stuff won't work on images.
It's just slower. That's straight up it.
Like if we want to work on Okay, what if
your end is slower? We're still not
going to use slow MS to test that,
right? What we're going to do is we're
just going to change our axis that we
care about to samples instead of wall
clock.
And uh we're going to just do methods
research still as quickly as possible
doing that.
Like there's almost no point at which
you would want to use slow M's in your
research loop. Just take longer. Yes,
exactly.
But like taking longer to train the
policy means you can run fewer
experiments,
right?
And also that you have to physically
like they don't parallelize infinitely.
So even if you have unlimited hardware,
you still have to wait between
experiments.
You really want your dev loop to be as
quick as possible.
Okay, so this is doing well even with
the uh the way more drones.
Well, at least the racing task is doing
well, but the Perf task is not.
We should probably do the swarm task
separately, right?
Get like some unified score.
Well, hang on. The Perf task. Actually,
the Perf task's not doing well. That
could literally just be like, "Hey, the
drones are too big and they're bumping
into each other."
So, if I just did
if I just do this and now I retry this
warm task.
See what this does.
We have M's with full state info and
once we're sure about the design then we
switch to camera. Yeah. So that's more
reasonable.
There's still quite a bit of research to
to be done in this area.
We're very well positioned to do it.
It's just that like I've been busy
building out applications and such.
That's kind of the plan for the next
several weeks is to just like work on
all these apps.
Been waiting for the live so we can talk
a bit on how to integrate off policy
algorithm. Can you join on Discord? Yes,
I can. I do have a meeting in like 20
some odd minutes, but I can definitely
chat for uh a bit on the Discord.
Okay. I will be on the voice channel.
We are stealing your J for own
experiments. It's puffer advantage, not
J.
Did you not notice the difference?
Shadow.
Hey, Muhammad.
Yeah, just mute the uh Okay. Yeah,
you're good. You just had to mute the
live stream. How's it going?
The uh off policy stuff working
Yes.
I think what we would probably what we
have to do is you like you'd have to
just make uh another file like copy
basically just copy paste the puffl file
and um try to integrate your stuff that
way and then I like the main goal of
this of the off policy stuff is not
necessarily that we want to support a
bunch of different algorithms. Uh it's
that we want to determine what is better
and we want to actually integrate off
policy stuff into the puffer trainer if
it's better. Right? The goal is always
to be to have like the one best
algorithm. Uh and we kind of want to
steal stuff from off policy if uh if it
is useful.
Mhm.
Oh, that's fine. Does do you have
training graphs and stuff or
Okay.
Sure. I mean, are you solving like the
basic some of the basic tasks you should
be able to just solve in seconds even on
CPU?
Pong is
like Pong is here. Look at this tougher
train.
Okay, so this is obviously going to be
fast because GPU
uh that like yeah that's already done.
Okay, and that's a perfect solve. But we
can also do train.device device
CPU
and I'm still getting like 300,000 steps
per second here. You see?
Now, this is a good CPU, but you should
still get 100,000 even on like a bad
CPU.
Unless the off policy stuff is just like
fundamentally way lower.
Uh, okay. I can look at your code then.
Hang on. You have code the link?
That's fine. Whatever is easiest as long
as I have something that I can actually
read, you know.
So, we tried an off policy buffer with
like with just PO and V trace and it
didn't work. Like I think you have to
change you have to change quite a lot
to maybe have it work.
Oh, I didn't see that you'd sent it to
me. My bad. Okay.
This
Oh, it auto opens in VS Code. Lovely.
Hang on. Let me get this thing set up.
Doesn't hide the chat.
Well, this is why right here,
right? This is I mean this is like a
tpple per element.
Yeah, Python Python does not let you do
this. This is this is like what SB3 does
and what other libraries do like
iterating over like this amount of
iteration in Python will make everything
very slow.
Let's see if there's anything else
that's going to be slow.
Okay. Yeah. Basic policy is fine. And
then
is the last layer a Q function?
Yeah, it's a Q function, right?
Okay.
Yeah. And then also, so this is also
going to be there are a lot of things
that are just different in the way that
we have stuff set up for puffer lib,
right? So this batch size is minuscule.
Um, if you check like what we typically
are doing in puffer,
even for something like pong.
Well, but what what auto does it
multiplies the number of the total
number of m by the horizon. So in this
case this is like 4 m* 1024 is 4096*
64 is I think 260k
or something
and then the mini batch even is 32,000.
So it's just dramatically larger batch
sizes than uh is normal in RL.
And like the thing is you're pretty much
always going to want to do this uh even
even if you're doing off policy because
it's sort of free. Like when your neural
nets are this small uh you don't really
get any faster by using small batches
cuz like you're just wasting time
waiting for the data to get get onto the
chip anyways. Um
I would suggest doing something like
that. You'll get the steps per second
way faster. This would have to be like
some sort of vector uh vectorzed buffer.
Like if you look at the way we do our
experience class, it's actually very
similar. Like you can probably even use
the way that we have our experience
class and you can just keep it from
update to update. The main thing that's
different is like you need all this
function stuff. See?
Ah, and then this is original cart pull
with rendering. This is not um our
cartpole with state. Our cart pole with
state is like 10,000 times faster
than this.
And then you have
puffer. What? Yeah, puffer cart pole. We
have it's on our website as well. Like
you can see our demos.
If you check, if you just kind of check
here,
we have them all on the website. I mean,
it's not the problem is not that you
don't have compute because Puffer is
actually fast enough that like you will
be able to run things a thousand times
faster than whatever this is even on
CPU. Um,
here. So, where where's cartpole? Here
it is.
Same environment, right? It's just not
done with pixels. This will run millions
of steps per second, no problem.
Probably several hundred thousand on
CPU.
Hey Linky.
Um,
yeah, these dims are fine for CPU. You
might like want like a 128 dim network.
That'll be faster on CPU for you and
it'll still work.
Yeah, you don't want to like there are a
lot of things that you've sort of not
kept from Puffer Lib that you really
really want. Like Adam is just worse
than Muan by a mile. Like we tested this
extensively. It was one of the major
contributions of 3.0 was testing and
realizing Muan's really good for RL.
Replay memory. You are going to have to
do some changes to replay memory. But
like we have an experience class that is
vectorzed for you. I don't think it's a
class. It's just in the file. We have an
experience system that is vectorzed for
you. You just have to like keep data
from update to update instead of wiping
it all out.
Um, see,
yeah, this type of stuff we need because
here's the
actual updates.
This what you have to do. Hang on. Soft
update.
I actually don't recognize this. Is this
from the original paper?
Oh, okay. Huh.
Okay.
I
Yeah, I don't do a ton of off policy
stuff, so I haven't seen this, but sure.
And then here's the this is
deterministic sampling not epsilon grad.
Yeah,
I think you do need some sort of
sampling because deterministic
and training can be really janky.
random choice
with like probability epsilon
with like a specific probability.
Oh. Oh, you just mean always random
choice. Okay. Yeah, that doesn't work.
So, that only works because like the
tasks are really easy. It's trivial to
prove that that doesn't work as well
because if you're only collecting data
um by taking random actions, unless your
environment is very simple, you're not
actually going to see most of the
environment, right? Like if you just
mash random buttons in a complicated
environment, you're not going to get
very far. So, it's literally impossible
to learn anything outside of the
starting area.
Okay, we got decay epsilon.
This the optimizer or something.
I don't know what this epsilon is.
Okay,
games
vectorized at all or no? Oh, this is not
even vectorized.
Yeah, of course, if you're doing one
environment as well, it's going to be
very slow. There's no amount of compute
that will save you from this, by the
way. If you do if you do batch size one,
uh you can run this on like a B200 or
whatever and it's still going to be
slow.
So, we have when you look at the way we
do things in puffer, right? This here is
a single environment.
Right. So when we're doing our stuff, we
have this is 1,024 environments on four
cores. So it's a 4,900 uh 4,96
environments total.
So you're getting like a decent batch of
data of like 4,000 observations at once.
And that's going to be way more hardware
efficient. GPUs do not work when you
give them one sample at a time like that
with a tiny network. you're just you're
spending all of the time just waiting on
data transfer. Like I wouldn't be
surprised that this literally trains
faster on CPU than GPU with the way that
it is here
just because of the lack of data
transfers. So if if you kind of look at
the things like if you look at the way
we have stuff set up by default in
puffer and then you kind of adapt this I
think that there's possibility that uh
off policy will work but like yeah if
you do it this way it's just you're not
going to be able to run experiments and
even if I give you all of my hardware to
like run experiments it's still not
going to be fast. Like this will
literally run at like 01% or less of the
possible hardware utilization.
And I know that this is like not
uncommon. Like I've seen this type of
stuff done in RL before. Um
but yeah, it's really like and this is I
mean the main thing with Puffer, right,
is we just made everything super fast.
That's why it works.
Mhm.
Well, that's why they don't work.
That's why. Right. So like when when I'm
literally running hundreds of millions
of observations in like seconds on one
GPU, right? That's why it works.
Uh the replay buffer that we have is
it's built into the Puffarel trainer.
This
wait the one from where? Which which
which replay buffer?
Oh yeah. So we have that uh we it's not
quite the same though because we only
use that with it. It's on policy. So we
only use it on one epoch of data and
then we throw it all away. Does that
make sense?
So ours is still like we use it in a way
that's on policy and I actually tried to
make it off policy and all I did was I
just kept some of the data in the replay
buffer like in the experience buffer
from epoch to epoch. It completely broke
training. You actually need to add a Q
function and you need to add some of the
stuff from off policy research to even
have a chance of it working. Um
oh works. Wait, what? What did you get
to work?
Okay. Oh, you actually have rainbow.
Okay. This is something much more
sophisticated then cuz rainbow is a heck
of a lot harder to implement than uh
this.
Okay.
Oh, yeah. Have you seen that we have we
have prioritized replay in in puffer
lab?
Okay. So I can actually here we have it
in a slightly different form but we do
have it. I think you'll find this
interesting.
Then I got to go soon because
meeting to get ready for important
meeting. Um
so rep prioritized experience. Where is
it?
ad. Okay, here. Uh, right.
Where the heck is it? Prioritized.
I know we have it in here. Where did it
go? I haven't looked at this in a while.
Oh, here it is. It's just at the top of
uh of train.
So, here's like the analing beta
and then here's the mini batch priority.
your your prior weights and prior props.
So this is just this is prioritize
replay applied just in line.
Okay. Okay, so this is similar.
And then Rainbow has a whole bunch of
fancy tricks.
Huh. It actually trains. That's funny.
It's cool. You actually got this to
train.
Is this Wait, is this
Oh, wait. Is this con?
No, this these are real scores, right?
Yeah.
Cool.
It's kind of crazy you get this to train
with it being this uh
this slow. Well, I guess it is cart
pull, but still
I would definitely what I would suggest
that you do is you start like taking a
look at huffer and how we do all our
stuff super fast cuz like you will
actually be able to make this stuff work
just so much better on a ton of
environments immediately uh if you can
get that level of speed. Now the only
question right is like is there stuff in
off policy that is going to be better
than what we're doing in on policy with
PO and I think that there's a decent
chance of it but that's the open
research question right.
All right cool I got to run for a
meeting so thank you for this uh thank
you to all the folks on YouTube for
tuning in here. I know this stream is a
little bit more scattered because I've
got all sorts of meetings now. I'm here
in person in California. Um,
if you're interested in my work more
generally and want to help me out for
free, are the repository linked on
puffer.ai. If you want to get involved
with development, join the Discord. If
you want to uh get more reinforcement
learning content like my guides for
newcomers, etc., etc., follow me on X.
Thank you folks, and I will be uh back
maybe later tonight, but I got a bunch
of meetings, so probably tomorrow. Bye.